[Reporting Issues] Add a page on reporting issues (#54)
godotengine/godot-contributing-docs: feedback/issue_report_writing.rst

  need to be adjusted to make it clear how things work, and how to make things happen.
- How the way it behaves conflicts with that expectation, even with a clear description of what happens,
  and how you expect it to behave, it might not always be clear exactly in what way the two don't align.

Having a clear description of the issue, and not relying on people replicating the issue to see what is going on,
helps in many ways. Many contributors can find the time to look through an issue and try to understand what is
going on even when they aren't able to dedicate the time to run an MRP or try to reproduce a bug. Many bugs are
solved without even running the editor by contributors figuring out what is happening from just the description.

A clear description also makes it easier for triagers to work out what is happening even when they can't test the bug
themselves, for example if it is a bug happening on a platform you don't have access to. And even when a bug requires actively
reproducing it yourself to solve it a clear description helps to get you on the right path, and more importantly

> helps you confirm that what you are seeing when testing the issue is the same as what the author of the report is facing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A clear description also makes it easier for triagers to work out what is happening, even when they can't test the bug
themselves; for example, if it is a bug happening on a platform you don't have access to. Even when a bug requires actively
reproducing it yourself to solve it, a clear description helps to get you on the right path. More importantly, it
helps you confirm that what you are seeing when testing the issue is the same as what the author of the report is facing.
```

direct readers to the description section if you need to explain something but try to keep the reproduction steps simple.

Make sure to go through the steps yourself to confirm that they are correct, it can be easy to miss a step when
remembering what caused a problem.

The Minimal Reproduction Project (MRP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A common misconception about the MRP is that its main goal is to "prove" that a bug is happening. But it is actually
far more useful in other ways, and someone making a bug report is proof enough that something is happening.

The main purpose of an MRP is to be able to reliably reproduce a bug, to be able to narrow down exactly how to make
the bug happen. This is important both because knowing how to make a bug happen easily is critical to finding what is
causing the issue, for example by being able to slightly adjust the MRP and see if it stops happening, or running on
a different platform to see if it still happens. And once you have figured out what is causing the bug, the MRP once again
comes in handy to help you make sure the bug *stops* happening after you've created a fix. The hardest kind of bug to fix is

> a bug that you can't be sure if it stops happening because you fixed it, or because you just can't make it happen reliably.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common misconception about the MRP is that its main goal is to "prove" that a bug is happening. But it is actually
far more useful in other ways, and someone making a bug report is proof enough that something is happening.

The main purpose of an MRP is to be able to reliably reproduce a bug, to be able to narrow down exactly how to make
the bug happen. This is important both because knowing how to make a bug happen easily is critical to finding what is
causing the issue; for example, by being able to slightly adjust the MRP and see if it stops happening, or running on
a different platform to see if it still happens. Once you have figured out what is causing the bug, the MRP once again
comes in handy to help you make sure the bug *stops* happening after you've created a fix. The hardest kind of bug to fix is
a bug that you can't be sure if it stops happening because you fixed it, or because you just can't make it happen reliably.
```

It can also be hard to judge if something is obvious from a video when you already know what it looks like.
Not only is this important for accessibility reasons, but some video formats are unavailable on some platforms,
especially in mobile browsers. The links to video files or screenshots can also become dead over time meaning
the information gets lost, this cannot happen to text descriptions. It is also not possible to search for information
in images or videos making it much harder to discover existing issues when reporting.

Code should *always* be posted as text (using the code formatting tags [add details]), unless the issue is not about the
code itself, for example if it is about syntax highlighting. Error messages should also always be provided in text form
rather than image or video, this is for multiple reasons, including the ones listed in the previous paragraph.

Having clear details of an error message can be enough to solve an issue. Especially if the error message is very specific.
It is, after all, the very reason error messages even exist, to give clear information that users and maintainers can use

> to work out what is wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding screenshots or video of what is happening is a great way to add more detail to this, but behavior should,
if possible, be described in text as well to make sure everyone understands and that everyone can access the information.
It can also be hard to judge if something is obvious from a video when you already know what it looks like.
Not only is this important for accessibility reasons, but some video formats are unavailable on some platforms,
especially in mobile browsers. The links to video files or screenshots can also become dead over time meaning
the information gets lost, this cannot happen to text descriptions. It is also not possible to search for information
in images or videos making it much harder to discover existing issues when reporting.

Code should *always* be posted as text (using the code formatting tags [add details]), unless the issue is not about the
code itself, for example if it is about syntax highlighting. Error messages should also always be provided in text form
rather than image or video, this is for multiple reasons, including the ones listed in the previous paragraph.

Having clear details of an error message can be enough to solve an issue. Especially if the error message is very specific.
It is, after all, the very reason error messages even exist, to give clear information that users and maintainers can use
to work out what is wrong.
```

Note that H.264 and VP9 are pretty much universally supported today, so the video format issue isn't nearly as problematic these days. It's only a concern for AV1 where older Apple devices can't play them on Safari (Apple only exposes AV1 support on Safari if hardware decoding is available). 

We should also recommend people to use screen recording software, not take photos/videos using a camera unless the issue *requires* a camera to be used for the issue to be noticeable.

  about a bug in how add-ons or plugins work. Generally, issues caused by add-ons or plugins should be reported to the
  creator of the add-on or plugin first. Only if the issue is a problem in Godot should a report be made for Godot.
- Check the documentation. Some issues are caused by a misunderstanding about how a feature works,
  or involve known limitations that are documented.
- Search for existing issues, `open *and* closed <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues?q=is%3Aissue>`__,
  to reduce the risk of creating a duplicate issue.
- Consider if the issue you are facing is actually a bug and not a missing feature. If it is a missing feature,
  please :ref:`propose an improvement <doc_contributing_ideas>` instead.

If you are unsure if something is a bug, and not a missing feature or a documented limitation, please don't hesitate
to ask in the `is-this-a-godot-bug discord channel <https://discord.com/channels/1235157165589794909/1334482804863406101>`__
or the other `community channels <https://godotengine.org/community/>`__.

The anatomy of an issue report
------------------------------

The basics
~~~~~~~~~~

> If in doubt, list things like system details in case it might be relevant.

Reviewer 2: The issue template has system information as a required field, so I feel like we don't need to encourage users to include it if they're unsure. Perhaps we could elaborate a bit on the "it might be relevant" part, something like...

```suggestion
Make sure to include details about your system in your bug report, as these can help contributors find and fix the bug faster. For example, if a graphics bug is reported and is determined to only happen on Windows, then contributors can spend more time looking into Windows-specific code.
```
?

Please make a clear note on the issue report for issues that might cause any of the following:

- Harmful effects to anyone testing it, like rapidly flashing images.
- Damage to the project the bug happens in, like corrupting or deleting files.
- Damage to the device the bug happens on, like deleting files outside the project or the device running very hot.
- Disruption or other problems, like crashing or locking up the device, slowing down the device until restarted, etc.

The critical parts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> There are a few parts of an issue report that are critical, without which an issue is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a few parts of an issue report that are critical. Without these, an issue is
```
Not very major, but just trying to split this sentence up so it isn't quite as long

unlikely to be solved (or even tested as triagers are unlikely to spend time testing a report
with these details missing).

The tested versions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> List *all* versions you have tested if you have tested multiple versions, this helps make it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List *all* versions you have tested if you have tested more than one. This helps make it
```

  this might indicate a failure of how the engine communicates, and might indicate that the documentation needs to be improved,
  or that the design of the editor could be improved to make it more obvious.
- **How the way it behaves conflicts with that expectation.** Even with a clear description of what happens,
  and how you expect it to behave, it might not always be clear exactly in what way the two don't align.

Having a clear description of the issue, and not relying on people replicating the issue to see what is going on,
helps in many ways. Many contributors can find the time to look through an issue and try to understand what is
going on, even when they aren't able to dedicate the time to run an MRP or try to reproduce a bug. Many bugs are
solved without even running the editor by contributors figuring out what is happening from just the description.
This includes, when appropriate, :ref:`adding snippets of code <doc_reporting_code_snippets>` to the report description
even if they are already in the MRP.

A clear description also makes it easier for triagers to work out what is happening, even when they can't test the bug

> themselves; for example, if it is a bug happening on a platform you don't have access to. Even when a bug requires actively

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
themselves (such as if it is happening on a platform you don't have access to). Even when a bug requires actively
```

reproducing it yourself to solve it, a clear description helps to get you on the right path. More importantly, it

> helps you confirm that what you are seeing when testing the issue is the same as what the author of the report is facing.

Reviewer 2: I think the "you" that the article is speaking to has shifted here from an issue _submitter_ to a _triager/tester/contributor_?

The Minimal Reproduction Project (MRP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A common misconception about the MRP is that its main goal is to "prove" that a bug is happening.

It actually provides a way for contributors to reproduce the bug.
Fixing a bug often requires being able to reproduce it, an MRP provides a reliable way to do exactly that.

This is important both because knowing how to make a bug happen easily is critical to finding what is causing the issue;
for example, by being able to slightly adjust the MRP and see if it stops happening, or running on
a different platform to see if it still happens. Once you have figured out what is causing the bug, the MRP once again
comes in handy to help you make sure the bug *stops* happening after you've created a fix. The hardest kind of bug to fix is
a bug that you can't be sure if it stops happening because you fixed it, or because you just can't make it happen reliably.

An MRP, as the name implies, should be minimal. It should be the least amount of content necessary to replicate the bug, no more,
no less. Please make the MRP as easy to navigate as possible, it shouldn't require extra changes to make it work. If the bug

> involves behavior in a running scene it should just require opening the editor and pressing run, if it involves editor behavior

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
involves behavior in a running scene it should just require opening the editor and pressing run; if it involves editor behavior
```

it should just require starting the editor and looking in the main scene, etc.

Full game projects or exported games (executable files) are *not* valid MRPs. If you are running into a bug in your project
and are unable to recreate it in a new project, please create a copy of your project and remove components from it until you
reach a point where the bug happens and nothing unnecessary is left.

If the bug requires any third-party content, like an add-on, please include it in the MRP.

.. _doc_reporting_video_and_screenshots:

Video and screenshots in reports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding screenshots or video of what is happening is a great way to add more detail to this, but behavior should,
if possible, be described in text as well to make sure everyone understands and that everyone can access the information.
It can also be hard to judge if something is obvious from a video when you already know what it looks like.
Not only is this important for accessibility reasons, but some video formats are unavailable on some platforms,
especially in mobile browsers. The links to video files or screenshots can also become dead over time meaning

> the information gets lost, this cannot happen to text descriptions. It is also not possible to search for information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the information gets lost, but this cannot happen to text descriptions. It is also not possible to search for information
```

.. _doc_issue_report_writing:

How to write a good issue report
================================

.. _doc_issue_report_checklist:

Checklist
---------

Use this checklist to make sure you've covered all the necessary details and that your report is valid and actionable,

> for more details check the links to each section, or :ref:`here <doc_reporting_issue_report_anatomy>` for the full process,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use this checklist to make sure you've covered all the necessary details and that your report is valid and actionable.
For more details, check the links to each section, or :ref:`here <doc_reporting_issue_report_anatomy>` for the full process,
```

as well as the :ref:`before opening an issue <doc_before_reporting_an_issue>` section.

- Add your :ref:`system details <doc_reporting_system_details>` if they are relevant.
- Make sure your :ref:`issue description <doc_reporting_issue_description>` is clear, detailed, and readable.

> - Confirm that your :ref:`reproduction steps <doc_reporting_reproduction_steps>` are clear and reproduces your issue correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Confirm that your :ref:`reproduction steps <doc_reporting_reproduction_steps>` are clear and reproduce your issue correctly.
```

- Add a :ref:`Minimal Reproduction Project (MRP) <doc_reporting_minimal_reproduction_project>` if needed.
- Make sure any necessary :ref:`video or screenshots <doc_reporting_video_and_screenshots>` are included and work correctly.

> - Any :ref:`error messages or code snippets <doc_reporting_code_snippets>` are correctly formatted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Confirm any :ref:`error messages or code snippets <doc_reporting_code_snippets>` are correctly formatted.
```
Or "Make sure" would work too. I chose "confirm" here to avoid repetition from the previous point.

.. _doc_before_reporting_an_issue:

Before opening an issue
-----------------------

Please make sure you have done the following before opening an issue, to avoid unnecessary work:

- Check the most recent version, including pre-release versions, to make sure your issue is still relevant,
  and make sure you are on a `supported version of Godot <https://docs.godotengine.org/en/latest/about/release_policy.html>`__.
- Check the documentation. Some issues are caused by a misunderstanding about how a feature works,

>   or involve known limitations that are documented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  or involve known and documented limitations.
```

for ease of testing. Please group tested versions to make it easier to evaluate, like so:

.. code-block:: text

  Reproducible in: 4.6.1, 4.5.1, 4.5
  Not reproducible in: 4.4.1 and earlier

If a bug has been present for the last few minor versions there's usually no need to test it further back.

If you are testing a pre-release version, like ``4.7.dev``, please also test the latest stable version to
help confirm if this is a new regression.

.. _doc_reporting_system_details:

The system details
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Make sure to include details about your system in your bug report, as these can help contributors find and fix the bug faster.
For example, if a graphics bug is reported and is determined to only happen on Windows, then contributors can spend more time
looking into Windows-specific code.

.. note::

  In **Godot 4.1+**, you can easily copy your system's info to your clipboard by clicking **Help > Copy System Info** in the top menu bar.

.. _doc_reporting_issue_description:

The issue description
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The most important part of an issue report is the description of the issue. While clear steps

> to reproduce the issue, or even a :ref:`minimal reproduction project (MRP) <doc_reporting_minimal_reproduction_project>`,

Reviewer 2: Here, "minimal reproduction project" is not in title case, but in other places it is. I'm not sure which one is correct (leaning towards no title case), but either way it should probably be standardized

are great *additions* to a report, they are not replacements for a clear and detailed description of the issue.

When writing the description of your issue, it's important that you cover the following:

- **What is happening.** Try to get as much detail as possible to avoid confusion, and please keep in mind
  that what might be obvious to you might not be to everyone else. This should be described in text form
  if possible (see :ref:`below <doc_reporting_video_and_screenshots>` for a note about video and screenshots).

> - **How you expect, or want, it to behave and work.** It is important that we understand what you expect to happen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **How you expect (or want) it to behave and work.** It is important that we understand what you expect to happen
```

helps in many ways. Many contributors can find the time to look through an issue and try to understand what is
going on, even when they aren't able to dedicate the time to run an MRP or try to reproduce a bug. Many bugs are
solved without even running the editor by contributors figuring out what is happening from just the description.
This includes, when appropriate, :ref:`adding snippets of code <doc_reporting_code_snippets>` to the report description
even if they are already in the MRP.

A clear description also makes it easier for triagers to work out what is happening, even when they can't test the bug
themselves (such as if it is happening on a platform they don't have access to). Even when a bug requires actively
reproducing to solve it, a clear description helps to get triagers on the right path. More importantly, it
helps them confirm that what they are seeing when testing the issue is the same as what you are facing.

If you are adding large blocks of text, like crash information, to your report, please use the ``<details>`` tag to hide it by default,
like so:

.. code-block::

  <details><summary>Details</summary>
  <p>

  Put your long crash trace here.

  </p>

>   </details>

Reviewer: Use triple backticks for crash backtraces:

```suggestion
  <!-- Keep one blank line after the summary tag, or the formatting won't work. -->
  <details>
  <summary>Backtrace</summary>

  [triple backticks]
  Put your long crash trace here.
  [triple backticks]
  </details>
```

Replace `[triple backticks]` with ``` (I can't write it within suggestions).

> Please include the *full* crash report, especially the part after the "Dumping the backtrace." part. (Add note about building with debug)

Reviewer: Leftover TODO item:

```suggestion
Please include the *full* crash report, especially the part after the "Dumping the backtrace." part.
```

> In the end, it's *impossible* for contributors to fix an issue without a clear description.

Reviewer: This sounds more logical to me:

```suggestion
Remember that it's *impossible* for contributors to fix an issue without a clear description.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm feeling a bit iffy on this sentence overall, since it's not really _impossible_ strictly speaking. If there's not a clear description, it just means a lot more work for contributors, and thus that they're much less likely to take on that work to figure out the details themselves. But on the other hand, if the purpose of this document is to convince people to provide more information, telling them it's _impossible_ without the information will probably be more convincing 😅

Author: It's not too much of a hyperbole and it *is* in most cases with really poor or minimal issue description

contributors cannot reproduce the issue with your description, they cannot fix the bug.

.. _doc_reporting_minimal_reproduction_project:

The Minimal Reproduction Project (MRP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A common misconception about the MRP is that its main goal is to "prove" that a bug is happening.

It actually provides a way for contributors to reproduce the bug.
Fixing a bug often requires being able to reproduce it, an MRP provides a reliable way to do exactly that.

This is important both because knowing how to make a bug happen easily is critical to finding what is causing the issue;
for example, by being able to slightly adjust the MRP and see if it stops happening, or running on
a different platform to see if it still happens. Once you have figured out what is causing the bug, the MRP once again
comes in handy to help you make sure the bug *stops* happening after you've created a fix. The hardest kind of bug to fix is
a bug that you can't be sure if it stops happening because you fixed it, or because you just can't make it happen reliably.

> An MRP, as the name implies, should be minimal. It should be the least amount of content necessary to replicate the bug, no more,
> no less. Please make the MRP as easy to navigate as possible; it shouldn't require extra changes to make it work. If the bug
> involves behavior in a running scene it should just require opening the editor and pressing run; if it involves editor behavior
> it should just require starting the editor and looking in the main scene, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An MRP, as the name implies, should be minimal. It should be the least amount of content necessary to replicate the bug, no more,
no less. Please make the MRP as easy to navigate as possible; it shouldn't require extra changes to make it work. If the bug
involves behavior in a running scene, it should just require opening the editor and pressing Run. If it involves editor behavior,
it should just require starting the editor and looking in the main scene, etc.
```

Full game projects or exported games (executable files) are *not* valid MRPs. If you are running into a bug in your project
and are unable to recreate it in a new project, please create a copy of your project and remove components from it until you
reach a point where the bug happens and nothing unnecessary is left.

If the bug requires any third-party content, like an add-on, please include it in the MRP.

.. note::

  If you include add-ons or any other third-party content that you do not own or did not create, make sure that the license
  for that content allows you to share it, and include any required license files.

.. _doc_reporting_video_and_screenshots:

> Video and screenshots in reports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Videos and screenshots in reports
```
I usually think of "video" as being a countable noun (e.g., "I watched YouTube _videos_") but here it seems to be used as uncountable. If this is standard across the Godot docs then that's fine, but otherwise I think anywhere we refer to "_screenshots_" (plural) the corresponding form for "video" should be "_videos_".
